<name> 
ENGL-106I 
<position> <name> 
September 29, 2016

Exploring The Sci-Fi Genre of Cinema 

In today's world with so many means of entertainment, cinema has become a part and parcel of our lives. Well, who doesn't like watching movies? Probably, no one. Sci-fi or science fiction has been defined as a genre that deals with speculative fiction typically with concepts such as time travel, space and technology, extraterrestrial life, space travel, etc. Could you imagine what your beloved movies would be like without the spectacular flying, multifunctional robots, etc.? Thanks to the amazing advancements in computer, audiences can enjoy films such as Spy Kids 3-D, The Terminator: Rise of the Machines, and the Matrix series. Science Fiction Cinema is broadly chronological, both in the progression of its chapters and in the analysis within each chapter, but its concerns are much more thematic and formal than historical. 
The upsurge of Sci-Fi Cinema can be traced back to the 60's with the release of Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey. This film elevated sci-fi movies from rubber-suit monster flicks to credible portrayals of the unknowns of spaces exploration and existence. It was at this point that people started to take the Sci-fi genre seriously. This was followed by the releases of some big budget movies such as Star Wars, E.T., Independence Day and of course, one of the biggest hits of the 90's, The Matrix series starring one of the finest actors in the industry, Keanu Reeves. Wouldn't it be great if an action hero weren't bound by the laws of physics? The Matrix is the film you are looking for then. Keanu Reeves once stated in his interview, "The elements of new cinema and technology the directors have to create images is unparalleled and to be in something that people are excited about seeing is a great and rare thing." These blockbusters, thus, laid the foundation of the Sci-fi cinema in the Hollywood industry. Films like The Jurassic Park (1993) and The Terminator Series literally left us in awe. They made us imagine concepts such as time travel, wars between humans and machines, etc. Well, had anyone thought about that at that point? Probably not. Alfonso Cuaron's Gravity, a 3-D thriller about two astronauts who get stranded when debris destroys their spacecraft, has drawn critical acclaim for its beautiful presentation and storyline. Well, if you carefully observe the growth in Sci-fi cinema, it shows that these films force us to imagine complex and deep concepts. Also, with the visual delight, they become much more interesting and attract the youth. And, of course, then there are superhero movies which have caught the attention of the youth like The Dark Knight, Spiderman, Suicide Squad and the list goes on. Movies like Interstellar, Inception and Memento have such a creative thought and concept behind them that they force your mind to think something out of the box. The science and technology behind these films is highly commendable. 
Like everyone else, I am also a big fan of Sci-fi movies. One of the focal reasons of this has been Christopher Nolan. Being one of the most acclaimed and successful directors of the 21st century, Nolan serves an idol to the young generation. Teasers of his upcoming movie, Dunkirk have already started trending worldwide and been a massive success too. He once quoted, "The thing with computer-generated imagery is that it's an incredibly powerful tool for making better visual effects. But I believe in an absolute difference between animation and photography." Sci-fi movies have always fascinated me since my childhood. They have always left me in a nostalgic position and have made me think even more. 
In this Proposal, I explored the following research questions using the citations listed below: 
1. Why and how has the Sci-fi genre attracted the audience especially the youth? 
2. Why is it important to address this topic? 
3. Is there anything beneficial from this kind of cinema? 
-The Article Sci-fi cinema written by Denise Henry talks about how The Matrix movie brought an upsurge in Sci-fi cinema. It has also listed some conversations with the lead actor Keanu Reeves who talks about his experiences. It also talks about how the advancement in technology influenced movies. 
-The next article speaks about the best 10 Sci-fi movies by Joe Pappalardo and how they influenced the youth. It talks about movies like The Martian, Interstellar, Matrix and many more. 
- And finally the review of the book "Science Fiction Cinema: Between Fantasy and Reality" by Brooks Landon tells us about the growth of Sci-fi cinema over the course and its historical aspects. Also, it talks about its chronological nature. 
So Sci-fi cinema can be termed as one of the highlights of Hollywood cinema. The themes in this genre are basically limitless. Sci-fi films trigger a desire in the youth to pursue science and think creatively. Many a times, scientists get many new ideas from these films. Films like Avatar, Interstellar and The Martian are concepts that one couldn't imagine before these films were released. Also, no one could have ever visualized concepts like the black hole, a 4-D world, farming on Mars, etc. These kinds of concepts motivate us and encourage us to pursue science. Well, if such complex concepts are being addressed in the present, just imagine what the future can hold for us! 
Works Cited: 
Henry, Denise. Sci-fi cinema, vol. 52, Scholastic Inc., New York, 2003. 
PAPPALARDO, JOE. "The 10 Best Sci-Fi Movies." Popular Mechanics 190. 11 (2013): 82. Vocational Studies Premier. Web. 22 Sept. 2016. 
Landon, Brooks. "Science Fiction Cinema: Between Fantasy and Reality." Historical Journal of Film, Radio & Television 31. 1 (2011): 144-147. Communication & Mass Media Complete. Web. 22 Sept. 2016. 
Modi 5 
