Jing Lee
Instructor: <name>
English 106i 
Sep 22nd, 2016 
1st Draft 
Effectiveness of Single-Sex Education 
	One of the major pillars of any civilization is education. Throughout the history, different countries and cultures had different styles and visions of and approaches to education. And as it is known, foundational education, that is primary through high school, is even more crucial to the cycle of progress. However, in this era, one can classify schooling educational systems into two major categories/types or systems. Some countries such as Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand have a considerable number of schools that are Single-Sexed. While other countries like United States and Untied Kingdom are more popular with schools of the other type, which is Co-educational system. I graduated from a Single-Sex educational system. I also had experience in Co-educational environments. For a long time, I was wondering about the differences between those two experiences. Aside from the length and depth of each one, I was more interested in the aspects of quality, outcome, and long-term effects. Fortunately, through the past two decades there has been a large number of studies and investigations regarding this matter. 
	The studies are more likely to be classified as opposing to each other. The question of whether different educational systems are of significant various effects has been the concern of many respects, including psychologists, sociologists and others. Nevertheless, the studies and speculations into this subject have never been to a common ground. Some studies suggest that Single-Sex education is a better educational system due to the specific and focused advantages the students can acquire, especially girls, from such a system. These advantages include environments with less intimidation encounters and spaces for specific mentoring methods appliance. Furthermore, some of the studies have shown significant results regarding development, achievement and quality. However, as mentioned before, those studies were contradicted by several others. Although The United States and United Kingdom are experiencing a huge wave of Single-Sex education promotion and spread, it is believed that Co-educational systems are more advantageous on both the short and the long term spectrums. The reason behind such a belief are the findings and claims of other studies that show that Co-educational systems are better when it comes to matters such as social skills, competition, and integration. Moreover, some believe that changing educational systems require more convincing reasons and efficient procedures. In other words, changing the roots of any educational system requires the presence of a whole different system that does not only contain all of the advantages of the previous system, but also fills in the gaps found in most present systems. 
	As mentioned previously, the studies conducted are a huge factor upon deciding which system is better at which. Aside from the studies being overly contradicted and refuted by each other continuously, the details of some studies-even the ones that are presumably on the same side- are found to be somewhat inconsistent with each other. Deciding upon such a matter is difficult more than it seems. 
	In this paper, I will investigate the subject of these two educational systems. Although the main goal and concentration of this paper is to find the effectiveness of, specifically, Single-Sex education, the paper will go over other educational systems for the purposes of comparison, qualification, and evaluation of recorded experiences. The information in this paper will generally be derived from academic publications, and interviews with expert individuals in the education field. 

