Religion and Science 
"Mom, why do you fast?", I asked her after a lot of reasoning with myself. She replied by saying that, "Our body needs to go through cleansing once in a while by giving rest to our digestion systems and only consuming liquids." At that time, it made little sense to me. My first impression after I got to know that my mother fasts on certain days of the year was that it somehow should relate to God, as at the end, we all think that it is based more on religion rather than science. But soon I realized that science plays a significant role in religion too. At the age of 14, I had just started knowing the importance of our culture through science. There have also been many incidents when my mother or my aunt didn't know how to explain certain rituals. The answer I would get to many of my questions was that, "I do this ritual because my ancestors did it." Sometimes people have no explanations, just because their parents have been following a thing their ancestors did and so on. But when I used to ask my grandmother about this, she would give me a good explanation patiently. Once I asked her that why do we have bells in the temples in India. She explained to me how the sound of the bells help you concentrate properly. All the reasons she gave were very interesting and informative. Recently, through my relatives I also got to understand why Indian women decorate their hands with henna during marriages; it is used to cool down your body as that is the time when you are very stressed or tired because of hundreds of things going on around you. Up until then I knew that it was a common thing but I never questioned it before, just because I got used to it. Travelling to different countries such as UAE, Egypt, Nepal, USA and Sri Lanka made me understand more about all the different types of religion and their practices. This made me more interested in knowing more about the prestige held by every religion. 
We all go through that phase when we follow the rituals just because we were said to and don't question them. There are times when we are just annoyed to do or ask for the reasoning. For example, there is a scientific reason behind why we join our hands when we pray; we are so habituated with what we have been doing that there haven't been moments when we are able to question it. Every culture has different rituals. The people who started these rituals should have an important reason behind why they thought about it. Our history has played a major role in science. The improvements and innovations we have made today are only able to be sustained after our questionings on the history itself. According to my knowledge, today, science plays an important small part in our religions. There are also certain practices that people follow which are only related to some of their misconceptions. They think that if they do certain practices it will lead to good luck. People agree and disagree to do certain cultural activities. 
The importance of this topic is that we need to know and understand why we do several practices required by our religion. People will be more intrigued in performing their religious practices if they know why they do it. Enlightening them with all the significant aspects of every religion will bring out our respect for other religions too. There is a reason why there are different religions and why they are Monotheistic or Polytheistic. We need to consider the different aspects of Hinduism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism and many other religions to distinct themselves. A religious person may always think that his/her religion is the deepest or makes the best out of all other religions. Through this research my intention is to bring out the best of every religion and show their importance to the world. Every religion is important. Every religion has an aspect of science in it which also might be related to the God Particle (Higgs boson). 
There are questions for which I am still finding answers. Is there any scientific reason behind the architecture for all the sacred places? Why do different religions have different dresses? Is the God Particle related to some aspects of different religions? To what extent does science relate to religion? Can religion be proven by science? What are the conflicts with religion and science? Does the existence of one deny the other? And so on. I intend to answer all these questions through my research. 
