ENGL106i 
<name>
<position><name>
12/9/2016 
Smoking and Passive Smoking 
	There is always someone around us smoking and we usually try to avoid or to stay away from them. At Purdue, people are not allowed to smoke in any facilities and we can find some assigned smoking areas at road side for smoking. Why do they not smoke beside us? Other than the fire-hazard of smoking indoors, it is the smoke that separates them from us. To not influence others and raise the fire alarm, smokers have to stay outside and away crowds. For centuries, scientists mainly focused on the harm of smoking and efforts have been made to stop people from smoking. However, there are always some people who cannot give up smoking. The only choice for the ones near those addicted smokers is to bear the smoke around them or "to exile them" for the fact that though the people near the smokers do not smoke themselves, they are still in danger of smoking due to the item called----passive smoking which is equally harmful to smoking directly. That's why we should stop passive smoking from any aspects. In my paper, my main argument is to discuss whether we should stop passive smoking by any means. In this essay, we shall discuss how passive smoking and smoking harm people and how to reduce the harm conducted by passive smoking. 
	The rest of the essay will be based on the following arrangement: first, I shall display the destructive result of smoking and passive smoking from two main aspect, my bibliography and the analyzed data. Then, I will discuss on the how the cigarette smoke us, which, in other word, is the mechanism. In this part, I will focus on its products, means of transition and some other potential danger. By the end of the essay, suggestions will be made. 
	First, since the passive smoking is equally harmful to smoking itself, we have some evidence to withstand my opinion. According the research conducted by Mcintire, Nelson, Macy, Seo, and Kolbe(2015), the secondhand smoke exposure is highly proportional to the damage of heart and breathing system. In the research paper we can see not only the analysis of data they collected but also some of which are made into tables. In fact, the cigarette smoke is the main source of harmful particles but also the smoke will result in greater damage to kids and infants. According to a research journal about an investigation in Hong Kong hospitals(Leung, Ho & Lan, 2004), the passive smoking did huge amount of damage on the infant and kids, causing them to have heart and breathing problems in an early age. If these facts are not close enough, I have firsthand materials from an interview with Dr.<name>, Professor at Purdue, Ph.D. in <department>. From his own experience, he used to smoke when he was young but he gave up smoking after he had a heart attack and his family who did not smoke also suffer from the same pain. According to the interview record, Dr. <name> took up smoking about 15 and gave up smoking ten years ago to reduce the chance of heart attack. Dr. <name> stated that passive smoking should be considered to be a danger faced by human which has the same damage as smoking itself. To sum up, smoking and passive smoking deal a lot of damage to human health. 
	Second, to stop passive smoking, we can only stop smoking because no other effective action can be made. The electric cigarette may be a good alternative to the regular cigarette or cigar but the costs for the nicotine fuel for the cigarette is fairly high and not so affordable for most smokers. On the other hand, the most dangerous product of cigarette smoke is CO(carbon monoxide) which cause cardinal disease because the CO can take the place of oxygen in blood and result in lack of oxygen. Frankly, any uncomplete burning will release CO, so does the nicotine fuel. Though the electric cigarette vaporized the fuel and tried its best to burn the fuel, the nicotine, due to its complex structure, still cannot be burnt 100% and turn into safe CO2. Besides, some researchers think the particles of cigarette smoke can be carried by clothe and fur. But Dr. <name> pointed out that even such process is theoretically possible, the chance of it happens is pretty small, so we can ignore the particles transited in such way. However, the transmission through air is far inevitable. By the end of the interview, Dr. <name> added that the cigarette smoke sometimes contains radioactive particles: Radon, another potential danger of smoking and related passive smoking. In the United States, most cigarette leaves grow in southern area where has high concentration of radon beneath the earth. The short plants absorb the radon and are made into cigarettes(<name>, personal communication, November 1st, 11:30am, 2016). Dr. <name> stated that there had been a patience get lung cancer due to the radon from the cigarette. This reminds us, if smokers do not stop smoking, increasing number of new problems would be discovered and new bizarre causes of diseases will come out. 
	Third, there has been no other effective ways to stop or reduce passive smoking except prohibit smoking. In the market, we can see air cleaners, air filters and various products for air pollution. People in my country, China, was once crazy for them and everyone had a special face mask to protect themselves from PM10(particle that has diameter bigger than 10pm) and PM2.5(particle that has diameter bigger than 2.5pm) which can be produced when the cigarette is burnt. However, these products do not work so efficiently alone because it cannot stop the CO. In term of air cleaners, the machines can release O3, which can react with CO and some small particles like PM10 and PM2.5. But, it cannot eliminate all the harmful particles. As I have said, the cigarette smoke contains thousands of products in which the nicotine, tar and CO hold the greatest percentage. The tar may be cleared by the air cleaners but more unknown products are made in which could contain more toxic substances. To conclude, people should not try to fix their mistakes which can be avoid. So do smoking and passive smoking problems. According to the investigation conducted by Leung, Ho and Lam(2004), the infants are highly vulnerable to passive smoking. If his or her parents keep smoking since he was born, he will surly get some terrible diseases when he grows up and how can his parents compensate his pain and loss? Hence, we should stop people smoking before greater loss because there's no way back. 
	To sum up, passive smoking is destructive to human future. We should stop smoking to stop passive smoking. The passive smoking cause hundreds of major and minor diseases. I suggest people to stop smoking and convince the surrounding ones to not smoke. Even though this kind of demeanor is subtle to control smoking, the government have made and can make more to improve current situation by releasing tougher policies to prohibit smoking. Just like what they did in European countries, in most places, smoking is not allowed. On the other hand, people's knowledge about smoking and passive smoking needs improvement. Many of us still take mistake of the very most harmful product and rely on some products that cannot protect us from passive smoking. 
References: 
Willemsen, M. C., Kiselinova, M., Nagelhout, G. E., Joossens, L., & Knibbe, R. A. (2012). 
Concern about passive smoking and tobacco control policies in European countries: An ecological study. BMC Public Health, 12(1). doi:10.1186/1471-2458-12-876 
Mcintire, R. K., Nelson, A. A., Macy, J. T., Seo, D., & Kolbe, L. J. (2015). Secondhand smoke 
exposure and other correlates of susceptibility to smoking: A propensity score matching approach. Addictive Behaviors, 48, 36-43. doi: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2015.04. 009 
Leung, G. M., Ho, L., & Lam, T. (2004). Secondhand Smoke Exposure, Smoking Hygiene, and 
Hospitalization in the First 18 Months of Life. Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine, 158(7), 687. doi:10.1001/archpedi.158.7. 687 
<name>, personal communication, November 1st, 11:30am, 2016. 

